1. Get a video you like and want to use. You can get one free from sites like Pexels, or AI video tools, or record one yourself.
Slow motion works great, but isn't necessary.

2. Make sure it's landscape (16:9) aspect ratio, and cut it down to 3-7 seconds in length. You can easily do both with an online video editor.
Export your video in .mp4 format, or use an online .mp4 converter tool.

3. You'll need to use something called FFmpeg. Just google "ffmpeg online" and you'll find an online tool.
For example, you can use this one: ffmpeg-online.vercel.app

Drag your video inside the tool. In the field that says "please enter output options" put in one of the the following commands:

High quality:   -c:v libx264 -pix_fmt yuv420p -profile:v high -preset veryslow -movflags +faststart -an -vf fps=24 -x264-params "scenecut=0" -g 1 -crf 19
Medium quality: -c:v libx264 -pix_fmt yuv420p -profile:v high -preset veryslow -movflags +faststart -an -vf fps=24 -x264-params "scenecut=0" -g 4 -crf 20
Lower quality:  -c:v libx264 -pix_fmt yuv420p -profile:v high -preset veryslow -movflags +faststart -an -vf fps=24 -x264-params "scenecut=0" -g 8 -crf 20

The high quality command will give you the best quality and smoothest scrolling at the biggest file size.
The lower quality one still looks good, and the file size is about half compared to high. But scrolling might be less smooth especially on some older devices.
The medium quality is the perfect compromise. Personally I use Medium or High. You can test and see which one you like best.

The 3 commands are identical except for the last two parameters, g and crf.
The lower the g, the smoother the scrolling. The lower the crf, the higher the picture quality.
Both come at the cost of a higher file size. You can test even lower crf if you'd like the best picture quality, but I'd never go below crf 16 for our use case.

Click "run" and wait for processing. Then click "download file" and save the video to your machine. Upload this video on your site and use it.
Enjoy your super smooth video scrolling experience!





Sites I used to create my demo videos:
1. https://www.pexels.com/videos/ - for awesome copyright-free stock videos. Pixabay or Envato are other good options.
2. https://www.klingai.com/ - an AI tool that allows you to generate a short video starting from an image.

I recommend following the steps above when optimizing your own scroll video.
Note that the design-1.mp4 video inside this folder is already processed using the "High quality" command above.
But if you use a different video, you will need to process it yourself. Just follow the steps, it's super easy!